# FTP Client Implementation
For this project, I wrote a Python script that functions as an FTP client. In order to accomplish this, I made use of Python's socket and urllib libraries to connect to an FTP server and parse FTP addresses. I opted for an object-oriented design because I felt that it was the best way to store the large number of variables I had to store.

## Code Design
My design consists of 5 classes: `Operation`, `Address`, `UserInput`, `ControlSocket`, and `DataSocket`.
- `Operation`: This represents one of the operations available to the user: ls, mkdir, rm, rmdir, cp, or mv. It is a simple enumeration.
- `Address`: This represents an address to a directory or file on the local machine or on an FTP server. It contains all information gleaned from an address, including things like the username and password associated with accessing an FTP server.
- `UserInput`: This represents the arguments that the user passes on the command line. It consists of a `Command` and two `Address`es, as well as a field to indicate which of the `Address`es is an FTP address.
- `ControlSocket`: This represents the socket used to control the FTP interaction and send commands. It contains a socket and an FTP address associated with the socket. Its methods handle sending the commands associated with the user's desired operation to the server and recieving response messages (but not data).
- `DataSocket`: This represents the socket used to send and receive data from the server. It consists of a socket, an IP address and a port number. A `DataSocket` object is used by a `ControlSocket` object each time the `ControlSocket` object wants to send or receive data from the server.

In addition to these classes, there is a simple six-line main function that handles the very basic high-level operations of the script. It creates a `UserInput` object with the command line arguments passed by the user and then passes that data into a `ControlSocket`. It calls a couple methods on the `ControlSocket` to connect to the server, log into it, and then to execute whatever command the user wanted. It terminates the connection once this is finished. The main function never interacts with the `Address`, `Command` or `DataSocket` classes because those objects are meant to serve the functionality of the `UserInput` and `ControlSocket` classes.

## Challenges
The most significant challenge I faced was figuring out the spec for FTP servers. The spec I used (Prof. Alden linked it on Piazza) was from 1985 and was extremely verbose, so finding exactly what I was looking for was often difficult. The high-level overview in the project description was extremely helpful in getting me started with what terminology to use so I could at least know what I'm searching for. Apart from that, most of the project was relatively straightforward, without any huge bugs that took up a large portion of my time. The only really annoying problem that took me a while to fix ended up being because I thought my username was nmolica instead of molican, so I spent an hour trying to figure out why the server wasn't accepting my credentials only to discover that the FTP address I was passing on the command line was bad.

## Testing
Part of the reason I chose to write my script in an object-oriented style was so that testing would be easy. I initially thought that I would write unit tests for my methods, but I later opted to forego this because my code is extremely modular and I am very confident in its correctness. I tested every permutation of valid commands for every function I wrote as I went. I also tested a large number of invalid commands and did a lot more error-catching than I probably needed to for this assignment. I made sure that each try-except block didn't exit when it wasn't supposed to, and also verified that it properly caught errors. I also tried my best to make it so that rather than failing silently, my code prints nice errors to help with debugging and help the user know what they're doing wrong.